We're talking with Dan Kosnansky, we're in New York, just so we can identify this.
I have to get this close to you, because what you have to say is more important than what I have to say.
No, I wouldn't say that.
I look at it as if you wear a street.
Because I'm as interested in you.
Thank you.
Can you tell me about your own collecting?
Yeah, we're talking about dust jackets.
I met her when she first got into business.
I had just gotten a divorce in several years.
Just completely swore up women.
Then a friend of mine gave me her first catalog, and there was a book in it for $25, which had a parody of Sherlock Holmes.
It was in a dust jack.
So I immediately made an appointment, and of course the book had been sold.
The book had been sold.
But I saw Facilla, and we developed a mutual liking for each other.
Although some time went by, six months later, she called me up and asked me if I wanted to go to lunch.
And we did, and then six months later after that, she called me up again.
She said, would you like to go to lunch again or dinner?
And then after dinner, then we've been together ever since.
That's how we met.
She's now about seven or eight years.
She's been in business about seven, eight or nine years.
I almost feel it's more than that.
She's only had it for about seven years.
It could be.
It's always been there.
Yeah, it should be.
But, well, she worked in publishing for a long time.
She worked for Harcourt Brace Javanovic.
She was Javanovic's personal secretary.
And then she went into, she became the director of the Franklin Refrain series, in charge of all of the rights.
So she dealt with all these individual authors, William Soraya and all those people.
And then she went from there and worked for John Fleming.
She worked for John for two years.
And John said, you know, you know everything that I know.
He said, it's time for you to go out on your own.
So she went out on her own.
He was the greatest.
But he helped her get started.
And then about...
Two or three years after I met her, they formed a partnership.
Fleming and Priscilla.
What was the name of the company?
John Fleming and Priscilla Javallis.
And they put out two big catalogs together.
Out of New York or out of Boston?
Both.
All dealing with Libre d'Artiste.
And you must see those catalogs to get a sense of what Priscilla's done.
I know we're going to talk about other things, but I'm telling you.
She's probably without...
She won't tell you, but I'd say she was number one in the world in her field.
Without telling you how much business she does or all that.
I have the Abrams book for the introduction.
You have to look at the catalog.
But you have to be accomplished to even get a commission like that.
And they came to her.
There's a level of attrition.
I mean, people fall by.
You don't just arrive at this point.
The Art Deco book you're talking about.
That's exactly right.
Well, the reason they came to her was she sold most of the books in that book.
So they could not get the photographs without going to her.
Because the owners...
would say to them, hey, you check with Priscilla if she says it's okay.
And then they came to her for the preface and all that stuff.
So I'm not saying anything that is really not known or anything like that, but she's in her own way.
She's just, this is her thing.
I've been a book collector for all of my life.
How old are you?
I'm 52.
Congratulations.
I'm 52, and I was raised in the Bronx.
My parents were immigrants, one from Russia and one from Poland, and I was born in Israel.
And I came here when I was about two or three.
Was Israel Israel?
No, it was Palestine.
My father was a great book collector and a stamp collector.
He escaped Russia by selling his stamp collection.
He was about 14 years old.
He ice skated across the Dnieper River into Europe, and that's how he eventually made his way to Israel.
Leo, first name, Hosnansky, as it is now, with a J in it.
Well, it was P-O-S-N-J-A-N-S-K-Y.
And when we went through Ellis Island, the guy at the gate said, hey, you don't need that J. Why does the family have a story like that?
He said, you don't need that J. And he crossed out the J and sent us into the delousing showers, which I guess everybody did.
And we came out clean, but no J. That's it.
In my book, so I'll make sure we're working there, which we are, it's just a curious circumstance.
And I'm not so sure now, it's coincidental, but a surprisingly high number, a large number of my siblings say Jewish.
Jewish people have a strong love, not just love, I mean, commitment to books.
And no, it's totally right.
I'm just trying to do a book and I'm taking it the way it comes.
There's going to be women fun.
There's going to be black straight.
And I'm just going up to the most interesting... Well, you say put it on the record.
I'm not... I mean, I am exactly what you see.
And it's never bothered me.
I've always done pretty much what I wanted to do.
You work in education.
You mentioned to me the vice president of Emerson College for construction, development, and real estate.
So I do all their real estate purchase and sales.
I do all the renovation of their buildings.
And now I'm also responsible for all of their fundraising efforts.
Recently, I took over the management of a 15-person fundraising department that wasn't doing too well.
Prior to that, I was at Harvard for 12 years.
I taught at Harvard University.
I raised money for Harvard, one particular project, $6 million for the Graduate School of Education.
What did you teach?
Urban Education.
I taught with Nathan Glazer, a prominent sociologist.
And I built the Gutman Library of the Graduate School of Education.
And I also taught at Simmons for about five or six years.
Five or six years.
I would say...
In the 70s, in the mid 70s, 72, 70s.
Before that, I was in New York.
I was raised in the Bronx and worked at the New York Public Library for many years.
I went to school a hundred times.
I did my graduate work, got my master's degree from Columbia.
I was an administrative assistant to Cardinal Spellman for years.
Then my wife got into Harvard.
I was married at the time.
So I dropped everything in New York.
And we moved up to Massachusetts.
I walked in off the street and got a job.
For what year is this?
This would have been in, uh, 68.
So you've been up here for 22 years?
Yeah, about 22 years.
We moved to Nashville, New Hampshire first.
I bought a house, my first house.
And then we moved to Georgetown, Massachusetts.
and then I got divorced, and then I moved to Boston, and then I'm like, it's all okay.
All the while, I collected rare books, throughout everything, from when I was growing up in the Bronx, and that's when I met Bethelman, when I was about 11 or 12 years old.
You started collecting at age what?
Age 11.
And this is something you derived from your father.
I guess so.
I mean, did you read?
Oh yeah, I read everything I collected.
I mean, did you know that you were collecting?
No.
Yeah, because I bought books from Lou Fellman on Sherlock Holmes if there was a small imprint, let's say one of 25 copies of that.
Right, that's right.
Right here in Manhattan.
Right.
The first place was on Madison Avenue.
He had moved from Long Island.
Right.
See, his name was Lou David Fellman.
But his name was E-L-D-I-E-F-F.
Yeah.
The house of L-E-F.
And he was a nice little rotundal guy with a very dapper looking, little pencil mustache.
And you went in by yourself?
In Dungarees, in Dungarees by myself at age 12.
Do you remember the first time you went in?
No, but I can remember like the first 10 times.
I bought from Lou and I also bought from Scribner's rare book store.
Scribner's used to have a rare book shop.
How did you find Lou?
Somebody told me he had specialized in Sherlock Holmes.
And I came to know that he was a member of the Baker Street Irregulars.
And that's what got me to Lou in the beginning.
And I pressed the buzzer and walked in.
This was on Madison Avenue?
On Madison Avenue.
He had, it was right off Madison.
And I actually was on the corner.
and he had purple velvet curtains in his window that would be drawn by a gold-braided bell pole and from the sign, House of LDF.
It was a very small place.
I'd say, oh, maybe 1,200 square feet in total space.
He had a cataloger himself and his son and a wonderful big boxer dog.
And that was the most wonderful dog.
Do you remember his dog's name?
I know you're going to ask me that.
And I did remember the name.
What's the son's name?
Joel.
Joel's still alive?
Still alive.
You're not very talkative.
Yeah.
Okay.
Why don't you get some food?
Shut me off.
All right.
So we were talking about food.
Yeah.
And I'm really interested in it.
Now, let me explain.
One of my chapters is really going to be about the University of Texas.
Mm-hmm.
He was their exclusive agent.
Texas did 15 years.
Phenomenal.
Quite extraordinary.
And I'm not in any way suggesting any kind of impropriety.
I've got nothing on that.
And I'm not looking at it.
If it were there, I'd go after it.
I know you would.
And I know the story.
I know
how jealous other book dealers were of his success.
You know who I'm talking to Monday?
It's Charles Hamilton.
Hamilton, absolutely.
He's one of them.
And he libeled.
He libeled?
Right.
The only reason there was no loss is because both men were dead.
Had they been alive, he said in that book, Auction Madness, was absolutely libelous.
Now, Hamilton is a main man.
I'm calling him Monday, and we're going to talk.
Good.
And then at some point in this discussion, I'm going to ask him to back up what he said in that book.
We're too late.
So there's some evidence.
Luke Feldman and Harry Ransom got together, and they bought books, and they made millions of dollars.
And we're now signing one.
Hey, I want facts.
You got evidence to back this up?
That's an extraordinary statement.
And nobody, and I told the people who were texting
John Chalmers is the right one.
He says, doing that?
See, they're afraid now.
They're very gun-shy.
I went down there.
They ran it to them.
They thought I was coming in to do another job.
I'm not.
And the only way I'm going to get them to believe this is when they see the clock.
I think it's a good thing to do.
By the same token, I have to confront him and I have to tell the story who was their exclusive agent in New York City.
That's a fact.
Exactly.
And I am interested in that.
And what I can see is that Harry liked Feldman.
Right.
No, I'm talking too much.
I want to hear you talk.
No, he did like Feldman.
And I don't know much about Harry Ransom, but I know a lot about him.
I've got other people who know Harry Ransom.
I know a ton about Harry Ransom.
Well, that's why it's so vivid in my memory.
That's what Priscilla knows.
My memory is really good.
And the box of doors is sitting there as you walk in.
It's a rather small place lined with shelves and top
It's about it, you know, with a ladder that comes along so we can go up to the top of that stuff.
Lou, as I said, was a member of the Baker Street Irregulars.
The Baker Street Irregulars were a Sherlock Holmes group founded in 1934.
Paul Foxen was a friend of mine.
Right.
I knew Paul very well.
Okay.
Right.
And I got a lot of his collection.
And the Friends of God of Life.
Oh, okay.
And I do the Clarkson Lecture Room.
The Worcester area, I should have figured that out.
But Paul was a member of the Baker Street Regulars.
He was also a member of the Silver Dagger Club.
Right.
So I know where you're at.
So Lou is a member of that.
In fact, every year he used to give a prize, the Lou Feldman Prize, for the best original essay
delivered at the annual meeting of $100.
The group was founded in 1934 by Christopher Morey and a few friends.
They have a menu, the original menu from the first meeting, signed by everybody who was at the meeting.
There were 13 people.
And that was the beginning of it, really.
Franklin Roosevelt was a member, a correspondent from Roosevelt.
talking about his exclusive retreat in Warm Springs in the South, in Arkansas.
Yeah, he was a member of the program.
He was, he was a great collector.
But what he did with Sherlock Holmes was, most people don't know this, he had an area of Warm Springs, one of the streets, he dubbed Baker Street.
And the area that his Secret Service stayed, the building, was called 221B.
This is a true story, and it's well-documented.
I have letters from him, from his secretary, Grace Tully.
It's not from Ellen, but in prickly, is it?
Yes, it is.
It is?
I'll show you the book of his letters.
I mean, in print.
By in print, I mean between hard covers.
I don't think so.
That's what I mean.
No, but some of his letters have been published in a very small quantity.
This might be something nice for me to use there, wouldn't it?
I think it's interesting to connect Lou with this episode of Ivor's life.
In any case, I was an average Sherlock Holmes nun.
From the beginning.
And so I went to Lou.
Lou was on very good terms with all of the Sherlockians across the country.
And it's a very strange group.
It cuts across all economic segments.
Some were very poor, some were very wealthy.
A lot of them published their own stuff and limited money.
Lou would buy, let's say, if there was a run of 150, Lou would buy 100 of them.
And then he would mark it up.
Let's say if it was $10 originally, he'd mark it to $12.50.
And he'd have a whole stack of them.
So I'd go in there.
As they would come out, I'd buy these new things.
And occasionally I'd buy a book, a good book.
How old were you at this point?
About 13, 14.
Did he take a liking to you?
Oh, yeah.
Where did he buy you?
Then.
Then?
Then I would buy a book.
As I got more money, and as I began working in earnest at the New York Public Library, I got a little more cash to spend.
So I'd buy a book, I'd say, for $50.
He'd let me take a year to pay $50.
The reason you're willing to buy books
I'm telling you how nice the loop was to me.
Let's say with the machine running, you don't mind if I write about you and use your name.
I don't care.
As I said, anything I tell you, one way that I've always gotten along is to tell the truth.
And you understand that you're talking to a professional writer.
I wouldn't be here if I wouldn't have the material that I could use in a book.
We understand that.
Yeah.
I mean, if you say something... I don't want Janet Malcolm... No.
But if you say something, and it's something that...
It has a fact attached to it, and you want to print it, and you just want to be sure, so call me up, and I'll tell you.
Of course, of course.
To me, quotes will say they have to be right.
That's why I like that.
Okay, go ahead.
So I started buying books from Lou.
And he would carry me along.
He became sort of my mentor in the rare book collective.
Is he knowledgeable for that?
Incredible.
You see, one of the raps against him is that he wasn't.
Incredibly knowledgeable.
So that's belonging.
Right, total belonging.
He started off on Long Island, but he moved to New York.
He was always a bookman, first and foremost.
When he bought at auction in Sotheby's and Parkland, he was buying many times for a stock.
People thought he was buying for clients.
And really when he started buying Texas, they all assumed he was buying Texas.
Right.
But he was a great showman.
You know, he'd go, like John Fleming.
He was very similar to John Fleming.
Well, it wasn't something that was about him.
Right.
Now, he didn't have the benefit of having to work for Rosenbach, but John had.
So John's knowledge was broader in a sense.
But Lou was self-taught, and he moved right on through, and he knew as much about Incarnabula
as much as he did detective fiction.
Oh, absolutely.
And detective fiction, he was all alone.
There was nobody, absolutely all alone.
And you say this is a person who's been collecting this stuff for 40 days?
Yeah, all my life.
All my life.
That's right.
Yeah, exactly.
But he was all alone.
And when he died, the field was completely vacant.
And actually, a young guy,
who I started in business by giving him the material for his first catalog, Peter Stern, Pepper and Stern, who was working for... I think you said that you pointed down... I'm sorry, towards the exhibition center, right?
I pointed, right?
Sorry, the machine can't see.
Right, you said that right.
He worked for a book dealer in Boston when I first met him.
That's a quote.
And then I gave him the material for his first stroke.
He had it on.
And that's when he went out on his own.
And now he has become the leading dealer in detective fiction.
Without taking anything away from Peter, believe me or nothing, nobody today alive knows
one iota of what lou philman knew first of all he was a very good friend with some of the finest collectors ned diamond
How did he spell that?
G-U-Y-M-O-N.
He left his whole collection to Occidental College.
He knew Ellery Queen intimately, a pair of them.
Ellery Queen, one of his two guys, Manfred Lee and Fred Danay.
Fred Danay was the book collector.
And Fred Danay was a serious detective fiction.
One of my chapters is writers who collect.
Fred Danay is a great one.
And in fact, he sold his major collection to Lou Feldman, who sold it to Harry Ransom.
So that the University of Texas has an incredible collection.
Right.
Well, they bought it on block, basically.
Ninety-nine percent of it on block from Lou Feldman.
They don't buy detective fiction anymore.
You couldn't sell a piece of detective fiction if you liked detective fiction.
They bought the Ellery Queen collection
And I have a little pamphlet that was done when I bought the collection.
I'll show you that pamphlet.
We've got to get together.
Yeah, I'll show you that pamphlet and remind me that I need to do one or two things.
Yeah, we'll show pamphlets.
Okay, go ahead.
Let's get back to Lou again.
And go get some more food, by the way.
Don't worry.
Huh?
Okay.
And we'll show pamphlets.
Now, later on in years, while I was buying...
Unbeknownst to me, there was a fellow named Rollin Hadley, H-A-D-L-E-Y.
R-O-L-L-L-I-N.
He's one of my best friends.
His nickname is Bump.
He used to be a baseball player called Bump Hadley.
He's a member of the Gloria Club, was a member of the Chavern Club in Boston, the club of our volumes.
And he was the son-in-law of Arthur Houghton.
Really?
Okay?
Arthur Houghton was one of the greatest... He was.
He's divorced.
From his life.
I want to talk to Arthur Houghton.
He's still alive.
Oh, yeah.
That guy probably made more money than any book dealer alive by the purchase of one manuscript, Shahneman, which is a Persian manuscript.
And he sold it off.
He still has most of it, I believe.
I'm not sure.
He sold off most of his collection.
And that's why he's a
I'm sure that's true.
I would say that's true.
Ed said,
He said, because it certainly wasn't because of the money.
He didn't need the money.
Right.
He was pointing glass.
I know, I know.
I got the whole background.
I'd love some insights into life.
But that I can talk about.
Why didn't he give it to Harvard, for instance?
He did.
He gave some great things.
Well, the Keats collection is the other one.
He gave the money to build the library.
Well, here's his name.
Right.
It's a beautiful little library.
It's wonderful.
He didn't shortchange.
They don't complain, believe me.
but a reasonable person might ask how come he's not a collector anymore well not only that why did he sell it the great many of the great collectors do want to see their collections remain however i think i have a theory for that but i won't do what my tape is wrong because i want you to
Well, maybe I'll even keep it on because it won't even help me focus it when I come to writing.
I just, yesterday, got a copy of a book from Harvard, a beautiful book.
It's facsimiles in the Keats stuff.
The Keats stuff in the manuscript.
Now, this stuff is incredible.
As Helen Bender says in her essay,
As you might say about the Vermeer, you couldn't put a price on it.
How can you put a price on a Vermeer?
I mean, if you can't, how can you put a price on this teach that Vermeer is unique?
How about another one?
How about the previous person?
was invaluable to scholarship.
He said, fine.
I think the stuff that could be replicated, because the collector also produced, and I mean, I've got any number of people saying this.
Dick Manning said this to me yesterday.
You know, they're giving their, he's got two rooms named after him.
He's got the one down in Delaware there.
But the books, as much as he loves them and as much as he physically likes to collect them, you know, they are unique.
In my opinion, Dick Manning would probably sell anything out of the book, even that he's bought recently, if he got the right price.
I do think that.
You think the book is in December?
Absolutely.
Why do you say that?
Because I know of several things that he has bought.
I'll leave it on, but I won't quote you directly.
I say it so it's on there.
So let's say this is off the record, because this would be... Let me pursue it as background, but nothing to attribute to you, okay?
For instance, he has bought several major Sherlockian pieces.
A manuscript and a copy of The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, first edition, 1892.
English, first edition, in the dust jacket.
He bought him from a dealer in California, Markheim.
And I happen to know at the Los Angeles Fair, right after he bought the manuscript, Markheim had it in his glass case, priced two to three times what he had just paid for his auction for Dick Manny.
And the arrangement, I'm sure, was Mark said to him, look, hey, if I can get you this much money, wouldn't you sell it?
And I'm sure Dick said, absolutely, if you can get me that amount of money.
Is it possible that maybe he didn't want it that bad?
No.
No, he just, I don't think books are that important to me.
And I'm not knocking him at all.
I only met him once.
I should play this.
I should play this for you.
I should let you hear what he says about that.
This is yesterday's interview.
He did say, however, and I had to pin him down on this,
that i said because he does he said that they do he and his wife buy and when the collection is complete they like to give right yeah and they're very important and he said and you know and i'm not just saying this he said this is a fact and i said well what about the books and he said i said what you're saying then is that let them go out to the next generation of collectors and there's something novel about that i mean uh
Robert Hose said, and they said, well, why not give it to whoever?
And he said, look, where would I be?
You know, I haven't gotten my books if it weren't forever collectors.
And I, as a collector, and you as a collector, have to have some... I appreciate that.
...somebody called... Exactly.
But in Dick's case, he hasn't been collecting books that long.
Seven years.
He just arrived on the scene like a shot because he had so much money to spend.
I've got some very interesting quotes on that.
Seven years ago was when he bought The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes.
Yeah, I've got some very interesting quotes on that.
He reaches a stage in his life, an age in his life, acquiring almost mind-boggling, dazzling overnight wealth that a lot to do in.
Right.
Huffington did the same thing.
Huffington didn't become a collector until like he was 50 or 60.
He bought a lot and everything.
He didn't know what the hell he was buying, but he did buy what is now one of the finest.
Great.
That's right.
These are the stories, by the way, that I'm writing.
Does this sound like fun?
It's absolutely wonderful.
It's a great interest.
And I'm telling them a story as well.
But see, I started just the opposite.
I started with a very small amount of money.
I still don't have a lot of money.
But I started with Zilch, with one of the best book dealers in the world.
That was Louie.
And that's why I have such fond memories of him.
And I'll remember the name of the dog, too, because I remember the dog.
I can see her sitting right here, okay?
And I'll remember the name of it.
But where Dick started collecting when he had money, so that anything he wanted, he could buy, if it was available.
I started collecting when I had no money, and I really had a hunt for everything.
So I'd go down to Fort Avenue, I'd do all the bookshops.
So what's defined at this point, and we'll get back to a look, what's defined at this point your collection, tell me precisely as you can what it is.
For years, I bought everything.
Anything that appealed to me.
Whether it was a rare edition of Dommier with color lithographs, perhaps the only known copy in the original corp binding folio that he did,
or whether it was an early ecclesiastical work, or it was 18th century American influence, or whether it was very medical influence, or works on books.
I mean, I bought anything that was good, I bought.
My definition of good.
She was overwhelmed.
I mean, I had books.
I still have books.
I mean, there are hundreds and hundreds of boxes of books.
I don't want to get into personal life, but is this something that might maybe cause friction in the household?
Well, it really didn't.
It was just an overwhelming thing.
For instance, now, where Pursua and I live, I have... I mean, it is interesting that you, you know, are now involved with what the woman was... Exactly.
It was the first time in my life.
I've ever been romantically involved with the book deal.
Right?
That's a great story.
So now... Also, I have some knowledge of the book world.
Obviously, after 40 years of buying rare books, it's safe to say that there are many areas that I know of a lot more than Priscilla would ever know about.
Would you describe this as a synergistic relationship, in a way?
I'll give you a good example.
About four months ago,
I was at a book deal with a friend of mine in Cambridge.
And I discovered... I can't tell you.
And you'll see why.
And what I discovered was he had a little work in parts by Harriet Beecher Stowe called The Minister's Wooing.
That's one of her most common titles.
But I liked it.
The parts were immaculate.
And Priscilla brought it there.
Last night, it was here in the window.
Shortly thereafter, I met a friend of Priscilla's who was in the Gloria Club.
Two months later.
She collects Harriet Beecher Stone.
Who knew?
I bought it because it was wonderful.
I couldn't resist it.
Well, let me tell you the story.
I don't collect Harriet Beecher Stone.
I bought it because it was wonderful.
Now, my collecting has now taken on a much more focused approach.
That's today.
I still have hundreds and hundreds of boxes of books.
Boxes?
Boxes.
Casey and Hayes, which is a moving company in Massachusetts, you know, right?
Like this.
And Steve Jovellis, my friend and Priscilla's father, has him stored many of them at United Walden at his plant.
And usually on a Saturday morning, we'll go and we'll unpack
50 boxes and put them up on shelves and he's a record for me just so you can go so we can sort through them and i'll find an art book and i'll say steve would you like to have this now are you sorting these to reacquaint yourself with what you have to enjoy both and also to try and figure out someday to get rid of 90 percent of it which i don't want
My collection is now focused on Detective Fiction, the greatest things in Detective Fiction, and Sherlock Holmes and Doyle.
So if you come to our place, you'll see the walls lying with Doyle and Detective Fiction.
These are some of the... Give me a number.
How many items?
In the house?
Total?
Of this now focused collection?
Of this now focused collection, I'd say maybe 2,000 items.
In any case, I went to this book dealer and I just couldn't resist.
When you're a real book person like me, you've been buying it for 40 years,
If you see a really neat book, then you know that it's virtually unique.
It's very hard to pass out with.
I don't feel like I had to go either, but three years ago, five years ago, down on the Cape, where my family owns a place, my wife and I. Remember Winston Burrell?
They went into old Winston Burrell, who's now dead.
Really, I knew who he was.
He took a grateful book for five seconds, and he assumed his purpose, and he said it's much better.
I saw the pitch if he didn't have...
And he had $1,000 on it.
And let me tell you this story.
I got him down.
I mean, shamelessly.
I got him for $400.
And I kept getting him down.
But what I did was I took $400 gold.
I literally put them under his nose.
My wife said, you can't do that.
I said, hey.
I said, I know what's the problem.
He only paid about $7.
This has worked some time.
I said, he took the money to me.
I'm not a school collector.
It's only a one family.
See, now, I wouldn't buy Uncle Tom's cabin.
Not money on it?
$400?
for anything i know that i know that i'm not saying it's not worth it but i will buy items that to me are almost irreplaceable even if you have all of them
wanted you would be hard-pressed to find another copy of this work in the parts I never saw another copy I think the last time a copy came up for auction was 1921 challenged by exactly I gave it to Priscilla only because this woman is a good client of her and she came yesterday and
She took one look at me and she said, I got a habit.
She said, I've never seen this.
I have a stoked collection.
But you know what?
It made me feel wonderful because she is a very nice lady.
She's also the country of getting something into the hands of someone who loves it.
Exactly.
Loves it.
Loves it as a child.
And here's what I told Priscilla.
I'll tell you about the money aspect of it.
I said, Priscilla,
All you have to do is you give me my money back.
I'm very happy.
Can you make a small profit?
I can't say.
Are we off the record?
If you go up... She couldn't beat it.
She had never seen it.
She said she had heard that it existed.
She's a member of the Gloria Club.
What is it?
It's a work in parts.
You know what in parts means?
Little pamphlets.
Usually Dickens comes in parts.
Well, this is the same thing.
She wrote serially.
This is the only one.
Was she writing a serially?
Yes.
She wrote a serially.
and it came out in blue parts.
What are the years?
Is it post?
In the 1860s.
So it's after Uncle Tom.
It's 50 what?
I think it's 1860s, but I could check for you.
I don't even remember the year.
Well, it doesn't understand.
Because most of this stuff that comes after Uncle Tom, and I brought a collection of stuff.
It really is.
As far as collecting the snow is concerned, you've got to get the local car.
Of course.
Everything else goes down in place.
No, that gives down quality.
Right.
Not a good one.
And this is not a good book.
This is an Aussie book.
So neither is Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Well, Uncle Tom's Cabin, though, in all the sort of romantic tale, it has some very interesting moments.
You know what I brought last night here?
I will confess it to you.
And only because it's a target of opportunity.
And I do have a chapter of who collects the hateful things.
Somebody has to collect them because one of my pieces is a collector doesn't just collect them quiet and collect them for sure.
He was a great client of Johnson
My point is
bought something he tested he hated he wouldn't even put it in his own collection yeah he said first there's no logic it's an interesting story isn't it very interesting who collects this stuff so what'd you buy whips and change is it signed it was the first american and it's got the most extraordinary
I want to get back to who felt it.
I'm having fun.
Are you enjoying yourself?
This I truly enjoy.
only because you're looking at from a book collector's point of view and i love the book it's the one thread that has run through my life that was given to me by my father at such an early age his library had nothing rare in it but it had everything in it particularly the russian authors
I have a problem right now.
My father's died three years ago.
He left all these
My mother's living, still living in the upper reaches of the Bronx.
And I have to do something with these books.
I can't bear myself to deal with the books.
Because they're exactly the way he left them.
You know, he had a great friend with glass in it, like people did in those days here in New York.
Never wanted to move out.
Lived in the Bronx all their lives.
And it pains me every time I think about having to take those books out and I've got to do something with them.
Many of them are in Hebrew, and Russian, and Yiddish, and German, because these are the languages that he spoke for me and ran in.
But because I have this in my mind about not wanting to get rid of these things, it's been very difficult.
So now three years has gone past, and now finally I'm able to deal with this.
And I'll probably give the whole batch of stuff to Harvard.
You haven't anything to do with it?
Oh, yeah, a ton of years.
You know where to give it to?
You know Aaron Lansley?
I'm writing a chapter by Aaron Lansky.
Aaron Lansky is a 34-year-old kid out in Northampton who is on a sacred mission to save the Yiddish language.
and he has a MacArthur grant.
He's got the only book collector I know of to get a genius grant.
And his deal is he will not pay for books.
Tell him to call me out.
He's gone.
He's got like an ambulance.
He goes with this two-and-a-half-ton truck to rescue books from dumpsters.
And he's stuck.
It is a wonderful chapter.
So you're only dealing with millions.
I said, I'm not dealing with them.
But Aaron Lansky is threatening bankruptcy every month.
He's got 900,000 books in a warehouse in Ohio.
He just sold 10,000 books to Yale.
He is now personally responsible for getting unit programs established in 30 colleges and universities.
Is that a good chapter?
That's wonderful.
And this is what I'm doing, by the way.
I'll give him some books.
He comes to New York.
He sends folks everywhere to get close.
His mother...
John Fleming knew him as well as anybody, you know?
John, Lou Feldman.
And John never said an unkind word about him.
He was a real competitor of John's.
And at the end, they were both after the exact same things, the greatest manuscripts, the greatest books.
They were buying exactly the same thing at the end.
Are you familiar with his relationship with Texas?
Very slightly.
I'm not an expert on that area.
I told you I don't even know Harry Ransom.
I've never met Harry Ransom.
And I've been to Texas and I've looked at their collection.
And I'll tell you why.
There's one reason and one reason only.
Because Lou had told me many years ago that he sold, along with the Yellowy Queen collection, to Texas a copy of the Hound of the Baskervilles in a dust jacket.
And to my knowledge, as of today, there is no known copy.
And when I went to Texas, they couldn't find it.
And they said it was stolen.
And from my point of view, I don't believe they ever had it.
And Lou did tell me he sold it.
And I believe him.
But somehow it never got you.
The book is worth $35,000 to $40,000.
What are you telling me?
What happened to it?
I don't know what happened to it.
What do you think happened to it?
I think somebody stole it from the University of Texas.
A collector, anybody, yeah.
You read about the guy they just arrested out in Iowa?
I just read the story.
Where did you read it, by the way?
It was in the Newsday.
You know that paper, Newsday?
I connected with the people in Iowa, by the way.
Let me tell you about the story.
Let's just take a minute.
Priscilla showed me the story.
And I said, I can't believe it.
Ottumwa is in Iowa.
I said, you know who's from Ottumwa?
The only person we know is Radar O'Reilly.
Radar O'Reilly from MASH.
His hometown was Otomo.
He's the only guy I ever heard of.
He's the guy himself from Otomo.
He's from St.
Paul, Minnesota.
I believe personally that he picks this spot because it's
I'm going to go get my coat.
We're going to get together again, right?
We're going to get together again, Nick.
We're going to get together.